# Scripts used to analyze behavioral data for the publication "Size-dependent plastic exposure disrupts macrophage function and tissue-specific metabolism" by Nikola Makdissi et al.

The scripts in this folder were used to analyze data for the publication "Size-dependent plastic exposure disrupts macrophage function and tissue-specific metabolism" by Nikola Makdissi et al. They are based on the code in the main repository, but may contain modifications specific to the analyses performed for this publication.

> Nikola Makdissi, Maria Francesca Viola, Lisa Steinheuer, Nelli Blank-Stein, Eliana Franco Taveras, Fabrizio Musacchio, Katharina Sieckmann, Ronja Kardinal, Quentin Deveuve, Frederike Graelmann, Katharina Mauel, Nele Kronau, Jake Thomas, David Bejarano, Sandra Hoegler, Mohammed Yaghmour, Joachim Schultze, Christoph Thiele, Lukas Kenner, Andreas Schlitzer, Falk Nimmerjahn, Dagmar Wachten, Martin Fuhrmann, Kevin Thurley, Elvira Mass, "*Size-dependent plastic exposure disrupts macrophage function and tissue-specific metabolism*", 2025, Research Square, PREPRINT (Version 1) <https://doi.org/10.21203/rs.3.rs-6204281/v1>


The scripts in this folder are organized as follows:

* `analyze_arena_pose_Plastic.py`: This script contains the main analysis code for all arena (Open Field, Novel Object Recognition, Social Recognition) and the Elevated Plus Maze test data generated by the DeepLabCut tracking software. It includes functions for loading and preprocessing the data, calculating speed and other metrics, and extracting bouts of freezing behavior.
* `results_collector_Plastic.py`: This script collects the results from the analyses performed in `analyze_arena_pose_Plastic.py` and compiles them into a summary DataFrame. It also includes code for saving the results to a CSV file.
* `mwm_analysis.py`: This script contains the analysis code for the Morris Water Maze test data generated by the EthoVision tracking software. It includes functions for loading and preprocessing the data, calculating metrics such as latency to find the platform, and extracting relevant behavioral measures.
* `cFC_analysis_Plastic.py`: This script contains the analysis code for the contextual fear conditioning test data generated by the EthoVision tracking software. It includes functions for loading and preprocessing the data, calculating metrics such as freezing behavior, and extracting relevant behavioral measures.


To cite the release used in this publication, please use the following citation:

> Musacchio, F. (2025). DeepLabCut Analysis Toolbox (1.0.3). Zenodo. https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.18516448
